---
layout: post
title: College road trip
---
It's funny how road trips take relationships to the next level. There is something about travelling with someone else over an extended period of time, the combination of quiet, periodic conversation provides a perfect ballance of feedback and contemplation that brings two people closer together. I recently had the opportunity to spend 5 days and 1500 miles with my son visiting colleges across Texas over his spring break. During that time, we connected on schools, food, and what we enjoyed about Texas. We celebrated some of the things like Buc-ee's gas (not particularly Texan, but still a novelty to us) as well as Cajun food, tacos birrias, and of course, BBQ.

Interspersed through that experience came a few realizations. The two of us hadn’t really done a major road trip like this before. While we spent some time road tripping in Spain and Portugal not too long ago with his sister, this time was different because it was just the two of us. A frequent picture in our family trips is me working while the family is engaging. I figured that I could do the same this trip and had committed to several work items knowing that we would be on the road (bad). Logistically with spotty coverage this is challenging, but more than that, it detracts from the focus of our trip. I enjoy work, so it was difficut for me to "un-commit", but it was a huge relief when I committed to that path and really just focused on our time together. His reaction was kind of "cool", but so it might have been more about me. But nothing was going to fall apart at work and I was really grateful to focus on him  and his academic journey.

Another lightbulb moment was that he is still a kid, and sometimes I need to be a dad. Again really obvious, but sometimes I need to be more insistent that he do things like get involved with college tours or do other activities that don’t always come naturally. Part of it is being directive and part of it is ditching my sometimes ambivolent or worse cynical vibe for a positive "go for it" approach.

In the end, this road trip was more than just a journey across Texas. It was a journey of self-reflection and bonding. I really appreciated the time with him, the little moments, and just getting better at being a dad. Who knows, maybe next time we’ll tackle another 1500 miles with a bit more wisdom and a lot more BBQ.
